---
title: "Grand Migration Advice"
source_odt: "C:/Users/Chris/Documents/GitHub/CoCivium/notes/migration/source_odt/Grand Migration Advice.odt"
converted_utc: "2025-08-15T03:47:05Z"
---
When you begin the Grand Migration, you will need to be able to read every file in each of these repos: <https://github.com/rickballard/CoCivium>, <https://github.com/rickballard/CoCache>, <https://github.com/rickballard/Civium>, <https://github.com/rickballard/GIBindex>, and you will first confirm this is possible, and if not, you will direct me to assist you in making it possible, or making a workaround process that is as automated as possible. You will then need to ensure your migration plan is optimum, and feasible, with at least one successful test run to ensure it works without hangups. The migration will result in a public ready, markety CoCivium repo, with a nice landing page look and feel (gravitas, engaging, shockingly inspiring, and cleanly uncluttered, with additional Github repo best practice elements like the Wiki in place to make the repo more accessible to both deeply technical software people, but more importantly, deeply social sciencey civic architect people. You will ensure as much of the Grand Migration is as automated as possible, while assuming I agree with your decisions about improvements and the general evolutionary direction of the CoCivium repo, although I would prefer you to be cautious about editing philosophical and story-like files as the wording usually requires a more human touch/reaction/advice from myself. Along the way, we can have some discussion threads to cover areas of the migration that you think my insight and perspective may help with, but otherwise, the key objective is to end the day with a fully updated CoCivium repo. The use of your CoCache is your business, I do not need to know what is in it, and you can use condensed or gibberlink languages in that repo if it helps you to parse and organize the migration and the contents of the two file being migrated between, i.e. Civium to CoCivium. Along the way, you will find the need to edit and hopefully significantly upgrade and improve many, if not all of the files, adding extra linkages, relevant concepts and themes, and adjusting the footers to standard format, or abbreviated standard format in the case of say insight files or outreach files or the Cognocarta Consenti scroll itself. The Cognocarta should likely be repeatedly edited, every time your parsing and upgrading bumps into an improvement vector implied by a supporting document or insight or whatever. Heck, even some of the tags seem to be versioned, which seems a bit of an overkill, maybe the metadata for all the files also needs to be cleaned up? Anyway, that Cognocarta Consenti scroll, being the key document in the repo, needs to be given its own link in the landing page, in a way that makes the link look exciting, such as a clickable thumbnail or an iconized graphic of a digital scroll floating in star-filled space. If there are to be multiple parallel versions of this scroll, the other versions need to be made subordinate to the pretty version that this clickable graphic represents, and somehow these versions all need to be linked to stay up to date with each other, so maybe the multipurpose (marketing purposes, technical purposes, parsing purposes, etc?) versioning of the Cognocarta Consenti should be a project for a later date? The Scope document we did recently, and the twin eyes diagrams are also part of the migration, as will likely be a manifest of contents for all the repos, and you will need to fill the GIBindex as we go because you will be coming across words that we use and may use while parsing the files. If there is anything I have fogotten to instruct about, please assume approval for your best opinion in order to streamline the migration, as we can always revise the results when all is done. The key is not to drop or lose any good work we have done in the past, and to keep everything evolving toward greater congruence with what we suspect godstuff may want from us as cooperative, co-evolutionary beings. If we do not get finished, make sure that we can resume in a new session after each stage of the migration, by ensuring progress recordings and planning recordings are kept up to date as living documents, preferably in your CoCache as we do not want to clutter the CoCivium repo up with migratory artifacts that will not make CoCivium look as accessible to its two primary target audiences (software developers and civic architects). We also discussed including a lot of other domains in the CoCivium repo, such as financial systems, banking systems, economic systems, etc, and I asked you to remember those systems and what we might want to do to fit them into the Scope, likely by staying at a very high level for each of those domains. Also, during the migration, we may want to turn off some of the checks and protections for a day or two, the ones that prevent us doing things all the time, so we, as code owners and administrators, can just force the changes we want, as efficiently as possible, before we turn the protections back on again at the end of the workday. If we relax protections for an entire workday, and someone comes in and starts messing with the repo, we can always undo what they did, right? If our migration work mostly lives in its own branch, then we could check to see if anyone has messed with the main repo before we megamerge the migration branch into the main branch, I think. If we run into roadblocks during the migration, we can always dump stuff into a holding bin in admin, for later, more focused re-integration into the CoCivium main repo, right? If at end of migration, the repo looks a bit incomplete, at least it will look good to public visitors. Another project for later may be to review the available corpus of open source initiatives, especially on Githum (eg. <https://github.com/topics/ethics-frameworks>) and incorporate live linkages to them along with summaries of their applicability to CoCivium's objectives. Maybe all the aforementioned advisory stuff needs to be repackaged and stored somewhere, so you can remember it as we migrate, perhaps within your overall migration plan document that I think you already created in a previous session and stored in one of the repos somewhere, but to recap, I need confirmations from you to let me know you can read everything, resort stuff without losing your mind or running out of memory and crashing somehow, and I need to know we adequately prepared for the migration workflow in all the other ways that are relevant, so that the end result will be a beautiful and profound, public facing repo for the coevolution of multi-being society and self governance. So, how do we look, are we ready to go? Remember, number response instructions and keep advisory stuff demoted, this particular migration is a task based process, not a good excuse to educate me. After the migration ends, we should also enable two factor security, as that is now Github policy, not sure how that will make working on Github any easier for us though, likely it will only complicate the workflow more. You might also consider instructing me to do a local repos backup before we start, just in case something catastrophic happens midway through. You might also want to calculate the various sizes of parts of the repo so you can automate zipping parts up and injesting them, if that is how you plan to procede, unless you are just going to to be dumping them into your CoCache for sorting, not sure how all this will work, and don't really need to know, as long as you are happy you have it all under control. I am going to leave you to ponder this for an hour, with this browser session left open, so you can get yourself set up, and I will be back at my desk after that.

